This website aims to support the formation of a political movement of cultural co-ops. Its purpose is to amplify the sector by building a directory of cultural co-ops in the UK, as well as publishing research, stories and information about cultural co-operatives.

---

Co-operatives are a different way of working. They are enterprises owned and run by the workers themselves. Unlike traditional corporations, co-ops have neither shareholders, nor single owners, nor a hierarchical chain of command running from chief executive down to employee. And unlike freelancing, co-ops normally involve working collaboratively with a consistent group of co-workers.

This makes the co-operative model the perfect way to overcome the crumby working conditions all too prevalent in present day cultural industries. In sectors where competition is fierce, hours are long, wages are relatively low, and unions have little presence, there is an urgent need for self- organised solidarity. Co-ops are a proven model that fulfils precisely this role. Cultural workers do not have to go it alone as freelancers, nor exploit themselves for some "big name" in the industry. Rather, they can club together with their friends and colleagues and form co-operatives - a way to overcome the isolation and exploitation experienced by many in the cultural sector. It is no simple solution, but it is a way of owning the work you do. And if you needed any more reasons, it is a crucial part of transitioning to a fairer, more democratic economy in the 21st century.

At a small scale, co-ops show the possibility of a real alternative - one based on common ownership and economic democracy. But in order to build an economic alternative that extends the benefits of co-operation beyond the level of individual co-operatives, co-ops need to work together to democratise the economy sector by sector. There are many examples of this happening already. This website is one modest contribution towards transforming the economy into a commons for all.
